We left off with you seeing it on how you felt about
Vietnam or what you knew about Vietnam before I
turned the tape over. And I just asked you what you
knew about Vietnam before you went to Vietnam. And
you were telling me that you had seen something on
TV. Not really. I didn't really know that much when
I was in high school. So I went into the service when
I was 20. And but in high school we all knew we were
aware of Vietnam, which I graduated my school in
63. And so not, you know, not a whole lot, but we knew
that what was happening so. Didn't affect us a
whole lot, but. I was in college. And because of
the.
Because I was too busy doing things I shouldn't
have been doing, like partying and not studying.
Got put on scholastic probation. So you lost your
S2A? Yeah, 2S. Went from 2S to 1A like overnight.
And then if you were 1A, you were gone. Were you
married then? No. So you didn't even have that, you
couldn't even get out of the way because of being
married? You weren't engaged? And you could get
out that way. I know, at that time, for a while you
could. Up through, well, Kennedy let you stay out
without... He had one child for a year. They had
more marriages, did you know? More marriages in
that period than they had in 1946 after the war
ended, just to keep out of the war. I had a lot of
friends of mine that got married to stay out. But
you didn't. Did you object to being sent to
Vietnam? No, I volunteered to go to Vietnam. What
had happened is... We were at a base, at a strategic
air command base, and they were taking everybody.
They had even taken all our M16s. They had left us
with carbines. We were armed with carbines, which
is a good weapon, but we weren't. It was a World War
II weapon. And the M16s were all being sent to
Vietnam. At that time, the Air Force was the only
one that had the M16 because it was an M16-issue
weapon. They had to go away with the M1? No, yeah.
The Army had the M14. What had happened to the M1?
Well, the M1 was obsolete. It wasn't a repeating
rocket, right? Yeah, it was. It wasn't
semi-repeating, but not like the M16, was it?
Yeah, you could keep firing with an M1, but still it
was real heavy, and it just wasn't effective as
supposedly as the M14. The Army adopted the M14 to
replace the M1. The Air Force, Colt, offered the
M-16 to the Army that turned it down because of the
M-14. They'd already taken it. So the Air Force
took the M-16. When I got to Vietnam, you know, I had
guys trade me M-14s for my rifle. Wasn't the M-16
lighter weight than the M-14? Yeah, a lot lighter.
So, but anyway, what had happened... They were
sending everybody to Vietnam when everybody knew
that sooner or later you were going to go. And we
weren't real happy with who we was at anyway, so a
bunch of us. At that time, I was married. And when I
went to Vietnam, I'd been married seven months. So
you could have gotten out and gone to Vietnam
anyway. No. No, you were married. You got married
after you went into service. And took a girl from my
hometown and But anyway, we had been married that
seven months. Well, we got married May the 1st, and
I got my orders in August. And then I left like
December the 22nd or 23rd. Good timing thing,
right before Christmas. Right before Christmas.
Good timing. Well, that's the Air Force for you.
The Air Force has timing like that. So I spent
Christmas guarding the perimeter around Bob
Hope. I didn't ever see him. He really did come
there? Yeah, he was there, but we were securing the
perimeter. To make sure that he didn't get killed.
Or anybody else that was watching. So we couldn't
see him, but we... Anyway, that was Christmas. But
yeah, we volunteered to go. And we could go either
two ways. We could go just ourselves, or we could go
to dog school and take a dog. Either way. So that...
You have been to air ground defense down at San
Antonio. Yeah. I believe it's air base ground
defense. Yeah. And that's on the LBJ Ranch. Are you
aware of that? Part of the southern part of Israel?
I don't know that. Yes. You know, the first day. He
rented the property, I believe, to the Air Force.
The first day we were there, we walked in and they
announced. They said, how many of you are going to
Tonsenute? And there was several raised their
hands. And they said, as of this moment, Tonsenute
Air Force Base is under ground attack.
And that was kind of shocking when you were not ever
involved in anything like that. You knew the
possibility was there, but when you realized all
of a sudden that it was reality. Where were you when
you found out about this? We were at the combat
school. In San Antonio. That made you really feel
secure. Made us really feel good. They were, like I
said, under attack at that time. Then we went home
from there and had, I don't know how many days
before we left to go overseas. But we weren't, I
wasn't afraid, you know. Well, did you, do you
think that the, that school that you went to down in
San Antonio, out of Lackland, it helped you in any,
in the type of warfare? Because I, from what I
understand, I don't know whether it was in 66, but
more recently they teach guerrilla warfare down
there. Yeah. Did they teach any of it then? No, not
really. Most everything we learned was, uh,
unarmed
defense. Yeah, some of the dealing with North
Vietnamese customs like booby traps and
different kinds of stuff like that, but it wasn't
real thorough. It was a new thing. I remember our
instructor in unarmed defense, he was crazy. And
Everything was killed. Everything he did had
something to do with killing. Nothing was bend
somebody's arm and take them. It was to kill them.
And I remember him telling us, and he really was
crazy and everything, but I remember him telling
us, he said, you'll know when you pass my test, when
you step your foot back on the United States soil.
He said, until then, you won't know if you passed or
not. Obviously, you passed the test. Well, so,
some of us passed the test. Well, there's some good
logic to that. Well, there is. It kind of makes you,
you know, I don't know, kind of gives you a funny
feeling that, well, I've got to wait a year to see if
I passed the test. Kind of does. But I never forgot
that. Well, obviously you didn't because you came
back. Yeah, right. And there were many, many that
did not come back. Right. Was Jane, Jane Fonda came
over there at the time while you were there? While I
was there, she came, made her trip. Would you like
to tell me a little bit about that? Well,
morale wasn't really good. Anyway, and because of
the fact. That we didn't have. We didn't hear or
feel the support. From our own people, you know the
Americans are at home. We also were feeling that
same. You know that same kind of let down. Of course
you had it from from the enemy anyway. But then
again, all we heard was bad things. from our own
people. And then Jane Fonda makes a trip to the
North and starts feeling sorry and telling all
those people over there, including the combat
troops, how we are bloodthirsty and killing
people when we shouldn't be, doing all the things
that we shouldn't be doing. And I don't know how
many American GIs lost their lives because of her
trip. But I know a lot of them did because she fed all
of the NARC energy to be able to fight that much
harder because of the things she told them,
because of the trips she made. I mean, they like
hearing that. That's good stuff, good
propaganda. And it made them just fight that much
harder. And I think I blame our for allowing her to
make that trip.
To begin with, I felt like they should have shot her
when she came back as a traitor. I think she was as
much a traitor as any traitor in the history of our
country. And I don't think she either should not
have been allowed to come back or she should have
been dealt with when she came back as a traitor. But
now I feel like that she shouldn't have ever been
allowed to make the trip to begin with. There are a
lot of people that share your feelings against
her. There's a lot of people that don't have any.
She has an exercise deal. And a lot of people that
I've heard just in passing say, I won't touch it.
Yeah. Because of what she did to our guys in
Vietnam. I don't know how the lady sleeps. I really
don't. Because I know a lot of people lost their
lives because of her. So... Well, you said that
you felt that the war could have been won. Do you
think if Barry Goldwater had been elected
president in 1964 instead of LBJ,
because Barry Goldwater, if you recall, was
called a warmonger, and he didn't know anything
after all. He was a brigadier general in the Air
Force, but he didn't know anything. Yeah. about
what was going on, and he really did know a lot about
what was going on. I think Barry Goldwater would
have been a better president for the war than
Lyndon Johnson. I feel like Dwight Eisenhower
would have been a better president than Lyndon
Johnson, you know, as far as the war is concerned.
Or General MacArthur, or, you know, a lot of
people. I don't know if it would have been, I don't
know if he would have been allowed to do he wanted to
do as a president you know congress would allow him
to do um i don't know it's hard to say lbj and kennedy
did what they wanted to do yeah they did so you know i
can't see why goldwater right i don't know i you
know it could have been done so much different you
know that You know, I mean, we've got bombs that'll
take care of all of the country of Vietnam in one
trip. Well, Dwight Eisenhower threatened them
when this thing first started. He threatened to
use atomic bombs. Really? And Congress said no.
Are you aware that this was never a declared war?
Oh, yeah. That it was just the Gulf of Tonkin Accord
that got them... Bright. Into the war? There
again, if you ask, and I know you understand this as
well as I do, but if you ask the guys that were there,
it was a war. There's no question about the fact
that it was a war. But why are you bitter about that?
And they say, and a lot of other people, a lot of
other Vietnam vets are bitter because some of them
say that they didn't... They weren't fighting for
anything. Well, I don't know why they say that. I
feel like, to begin with, that when you're born in
this country, to begin with, that you, as a male,
you're born with an obligation. Not because I'm
unusually patriotic or anything like that, but I
believe that you're born with an obligation in
this country to serve, to defend it at any cost. if
you're called to do that. I don't feel like it's up
to me to decide whether that cause is just or not. I
feel like it's a decision that should be made by the
people we appoint to do that. And when I went, my
daddy went before me, his father before him, and on
down the line, our fathers, whether you go or not,
somebody went to do it. And I believe we're
obligated to do that.
When we went over there, you didn't know how it was
going to turn out. I mean, you couldn't go over
there in 1962 or 1966 and say, well, we're going to
leave here and pull out in 1973. Nobody knew that.
So how are you going to predict that? So you've got
to go over there and fight for a cause. You go over
and fight because you were asked to do that by your
country. I don't think we need to question the
president or we need to question Congress when
we're sent to go somewhere to fight. I'm very, very
bitter at the deserters during that time. And I'm
very, very bitter... and our political process
for pardoning them. I don't think that should have
been done. I think they should have went to jail. I
think if we ever have another war, they're going to
do that same thing again because they got away with
it. I just believe that. I believe everybody that
died in Vietnam died with a... a sense of duty, and I
think they were fighting as hard as they could
fight when they died. And I think they were doing
it, and I think they had pride in their uniform, and
I think they had pride in the flag. Were you aware
that college graduates were getting out of the
service by Using technology and medical lying,
actually lying, to keep from going into service?
Because their idea was that the people who, the
lower class, uneducated people should go and do
their dirty work. Sure. That's, you know, I guess
that's a sign of the times, kind of. But, and, you
know, that's a, they're the ones that's got to live
with it. You know, I don't, I don't, I know people
that lied about medical things that weren't
college graduates, you know, that were high
school graduates that lied to get out of being
drafted and get out of going to the service. And I
personally know people that did that. I think
that's something we can't control. I don't think I
can control it. I don't think anybody else that's
going to always go on. I think I'm going to have to
live with it, as you said. Yeah. You said you've
read, you're familiar with Phil Caputo? Yeah. He
was a college graduate who went into the Marines
after he had, because he really didn't know what he
was getting into. And when he came back to the
United States, he stayed out. Have you read his
book? Yeah, I have. Some time ago. before the movie
ever came out. Do you remember enough about the
book to remember how he... Were the things that he
wrote in there pretty standard for what you were
aware of in Vietnam? I think so. I think so. I think
it was pretty much... I remember... You know, I was
captivated by... There's... I can read a book
about Vietnam. I cannot watch a movie about
Vietnam. And I can enjoy it. I'm... I'm very, very
much against Vietnam movies. Why is that?
Because, well, I've never seen any of them to begin
with. That was a stupid question, wasn't it? Well,
no, not really. I have seen, I've
never had a desire to watch them for no particular
reason. And, you know, the next vet may say, well, I
watch them all, you know, I enjoy watching them
all. But me personally, I've watched Tour of Duty
from time to time. I think it's not realistic in a
lot of ways. It's a soap opera, I think. But stuff
like Platoon, stuff like that, I've never seen.
Good Morning Vietnam. I saw Good Morning Vietnam.
Pretty realistic. I didn't know anything about
the disc jockeys and that sort of thing. But a lot of
it was pretty realistic. I kind of enjoyed it. But
it was funny. Probably the lighter side of
Vietnam, but with the undercurrent of the true
Vietnam still being there. Platoon, those type of
movies, Deer Hunter, I've never seen none of
those. Here, not very long ago, I bought a movie,
rented a movie, Platoon, and I don't even know why I
did it. I watched about half of that movie, maybe
not half. And that was more than I wanted to watch.
And halfway through it, and I was watching it by
myself. I shut it off. I had a real, real bad
reaction to that movie. And I told my wife, I said,
that right there is the reason that I don't watch
that garbage. Because it's not anything but
garbage. It wasn't like it? No, it could have been
in certain situations, but Vietnam movies like
Platoon, which was the best picture, depicts the
Vietnam veteran as a drug pothead, an acid head.
And full of foul language, you know, just in a
sadist. And that's not the way every Vietnam
veteran in Vietnam was. And I don't think it's
fair, and I don't think it's wrong. And it makes me
very, very angry. Super, super angry. And I didn't
know it until I watched that. But there was a reason
I never had wanted to see them. I guess that's part
of it. So, what you're saying, this is 1989, and
you're still dealing with some of the feelings
that you had going back to 1966 and 67. Yeah, yeah. I
reacted really, really, really bad to that movie.
In fact, I apologized to my wife for the way I
reacted to that movie. I broke down from that
movie. And really, it really affected
me very, very badly. So, you know, and like I said,
the next veteran may not even bother. You
mentioned, you brought up the drug situation one,
and you mentioned that in the platoon they did,
I've seen the movie, and they did, I was not
impressed with it, I did not like it. Of course, I
had not been through what you've been through, but
I was totally impressed, especially since I had
it. Well, a lot of people must have liked it to be a
best picture. Well, probably our teenage
population probably is enough to throw it into the
bestseller. What was the drug, what did you find
the drug situation at this large base? Saw a lot of
the drugs, you know. We had customs. Security
police does handle customs in foreign countries.
But, I mean, it was a joke. We checked like every
fifth guy. The ones of us that pulled that duty. Did
you have dogs? No, we didn't use dogs and
customers. The only thing we used dogs for was,
they were all kill dogs. Dogs, I'm sorry? All kill
dogs. Kill? Yeah, that's all we knew how to do. Any
drug or bomb dogs? We had bomb dogs. We started
using those after we got a few things blown up in our
gate. So those bomb dogs really did... They did a
good job. And yet you never hear anything,
nothing's been heard about it in the news media,
nothing's been said about these things that you
had and the conditions that you lived under,
nothing's been said about it because of the
politicians. When did you, when you were, well,
you mentioned something about a heroin deal.
Yeah, the drugs. The drugs we saw, you know, we
checked every fifth guy. We didn't have time to
mess with all those guys. You'd find all kinds of
things. You'd find guys trying to get out with
claymore mines, with grenades, with marijuana,
with heroin, with opium. What? Claymores. It's a
mine that you set that sweeps an area. It's a bomb, a
mine. And they use it? Oh, they try to take them
home. The drugs? Drugs, bombs, grenades on the
plane. So you had to start searching them on the
plane? No, we searched them before they got on.
Every fifth guy. So four in there got by with no
telling what they had. But anyway. Did they know
that it was every fifth guy you checked? Or did they
ever rotate numbers? No, they didn't know. Nobody
cared. And the guys didn't care. They were going
home. So did it upset, did this movie, that platoon
about showing the drug problem, did it upset you
because of the, did it depict the drug problems you
were aware of? No. The thing that bothers me about
it, it depicts a Vietnam veteran as a nasty hit. I
mean, as a, you know, there was lots of drug
problems in Vietnam. You were upset about the
generalization saying that everybody was. Well,
and that everybody was uncontrollably on drugs.
That's what I'm saying, everybody, that's a
generalization. That's not true, yeah. There was
guys, there was guys that used drugs that if
you can put yourself in a situation where you're in
a combat situation, you're sitting out in a muddy
hole and it's raining so hard that you can't see,
you've got someone out there that wants to kill
you. And at the same time, they're telling you at
home that you're a baby killer and that you're a
sadist and that you're a slob for being there and
that you shouldn't have ever been born and all this
kind of stuff. And then you're sitting there and
your morale is below ground level. And you know
you've got drugs, you've got marijuana right
there in your hand, and you know all you've got to do
is smoke that. or take it, or smoke some opium, and
you're going to feel really good for a little
while. That's what most people are going to do.
They're going to take the opium right now. You
can't really blame them for it. There's a lot of
instances guys use drugs that I can condone.
Just to feel good just for a little while. When you
feel so bad and so let down from everything, from
everything around you, then that high for a little
while has worked quite a bit. We had the opium
problem. We found a civilian one night that had an
estimated $3 million worth of opium. We weren't
allowed to keep it. We wasn't allowed to follow it
up. We thought it was fixing to be loaded on a
civilian aircraft. We weren't allowed to follow
it up for, I don't know why, but we wanted to find out
where it was going. And then we took it back to
headquarters and the Vietnamese QC, Quang Cong,
took it away from us. And they allowed them to take
it from us. They wouldn't have taken it from us if we
hadn't have just given it to them. But we weren't
going to. And it was almost fixing to cause a a war
right there. Right. But we were ordered to give the
opium to them. And I'm sure they either sold it or
used it. You mentioned a while back about the
Purple Heart. This guy got the Purple Heart one
actually. He should have received medals for...
He should have received the ones the major got.
Well, there was a high... There's
a lot of guys that
got medals for doing all kinds of stuff. I knew a guy
that got the Medal of Honor. And he told me that he,
you know. He said they needed a hero. So he got the
Medal of Honor. So he didn't feel like he really
didn't feel like he really. I feel like he probably
did, but he doesn't feel like he deserves the Medal
of Honor. Didn't know he was going to get it until he
seen the states thought he's going to get
reprimanded. He was in charge of the helicopter
outfit. And they had a bunch of helicopters that
made an attack in the DMZ. And when they did, Every
helicopter he had got shot at, including his, and
lost a lot of men. Do you remember his name? No, I
don't. And he was wounded. But he shot and killed a
Russian officer in that attack. And anyway, he got
sent home. And I don't remember his rank. He was a
lieutenant colonel or maybe a colonel. And when he
got home, they told him he needed to go to
Washington. He was really worried, and he got
there. His family was there. They presented him
with the Medal of Honor. And he said he had no idea.
He thought he was in trouble. I have a friend that
was in the Army that received the Medal of Honor.
And he was a Holocaust pilot. And he didn't feel
that he deserved it either. He said that he was just
doing his duty the way he felt it. He told me, he
said... Westmoreland, the politicians,
Johnson, needed heroes really bad because of the
attitude of the American people. And he said he
felt like that was the reason he got the Medal of
Honor. Now, I think the guy did a tremendous job.
They killed 400 or 500 enemy troops. Fred
Ferguson, this friend of mine, he took a
helicopter gunships in and he... protected them
while they landed and brought up a whole bunch of,
freed a whole bunch of prisoners. And there's a
book that's been written that he's listed in
there, and he's told me before that he says, I
didn't do nothing. But I really, I think most of
them do, and they are humble. I think it's just a
question of being humble. There was guys that got
medals, you know, for Purple hearts were handed
out pretty freely. I knew guys that run through
fences and got purple hearts, you know. Wounds
received. Did you get a purple heart? No, I didn't.
You didn't get wounded? That's too fast. I run
backwards too fast. You asked me about fragging.
Yeah, and you didn't know what I meant. I didn't
until you explained to me what it was, but I didn't
see that happen.
I had a sergeant. We had to pull what they called a
QRT, which was a quick reaction team. And what it
was, if we came under attack, we were the first ones
out. And we had a sergeant that wouldn't lead us.
The reason he wouldn't was because he was afraid
to. Probably I would have, I hate to say this now,
but a few years ago it wouldn't bother me, but I
would have probably shot that sergeant. if I'd
ever got the chance. But like I said, my hole
probably wouldn't have been the only hole. It
probably would have been several. Did he survive?
I don't know. He was there when I left. Oh, he was
there when you left, yeah. And then the tether
fences came up right then, so right after I left. So
you weren't there when it got affected? No, I
missed it a few days. Okay, you were very lucky.
Had they started the B-52 bombings before you
left? Oh, yeah. Do you think they were effective at
all? Yes, I loved them. Do you think they should
have been started sooner? Yeah, and I think they
should have been done without any warning. What do
you mean, warning? They always warned the
villages before they struck the bombs. How'd they
do that? They'd come in and tell them to get out of
the villages. The Americans were fixing the
bottom. That was like...